Add docs for plugins HCP Packer support (#11389)
hashicorp/packer: website/content/docs/plugins/hcp-support.mdx

---
description: |
  The HCP Packer support allows plugins to be used with HCP and push metadata to the HCP Packer registry.
page_title: Integration Program
---

# HCP Packer Support

~> **Note:** HCP Packer is under active development, and we suggest plugin maintainers to keep up with the SDK changes
for more on HCP Packer support.

~> **Note:** If you're looking to develop a new plugin, please refer first to the [developing
plugins](/docs/plugins/creation#developing-plugins) page.

The HCP Packer support consists on making the Image metadata available to Packer through the builder artifact. Before pushing
metadata to the HCP Packer registry, Packer will query for the Image metadata by looking for a [Image](https://github.com/hashicorp/packer-plugin-sdk/blob/b688c9db722f8e9685310b03ebcc55bfa6b7a674/packer/registry/image/image.go#L22)
under a [key](https://github.com/hashicorp/packer-plugin-sdk/blob/b688c9db722f8e9685310b03ebcc55bfa6b7a674/packer/registry/image/image.go#L15)

> in the artifact.

Reviewer: I would suggest linking out to the module docs so that users can see the types and basic examples on how to use the ArtifactOverrideFunc type. The latest module docs can be found at https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/packer-plugin-sdk/packer/registry/image

Author: Ohh good idea! I haven't thought about that but that's the correct thing to point to. Thanks

## Builder Artifact

To make the plugin support HCP Packer, changes must be made to the build artifact. The artifact should return the appropriate

> Image metadata in `State(name string) interface{}` when the `name` is the `par.artifact.metadata` specific key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Image metadata in `State(name string) interface{}` when the `name` is set to `par.artifact.metadata`. The expected value is provided by the [image.ArtifactStateURI](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/packer-plugin-sdk/packer/registry/image#pkg-constants) constant.
```

The packer-plugin-sdk implements the Image struct to make HCP Packer support easier.

> We provide the [`FromArtifact`](https://github.com/hashicorp/packer-plugin-sdk/blob/efe3f1229c88b517e236b06e927b0dba7dd9394e/packer/registry/image/image.go#L96) function

Reviewer: I think referencing the go modules doc here as well would be helpful.

to easily create an Image with the basic information contained in the Artifact. If customization is necessary, the `FromArtifact` accepts
override functions as the second argument, and that can be used to set different values for the metadata.

> The [Image metadata](https://github.com/hashicorp/packer-plugin-sdk/blob/b688c9db722f8e9685310b03ebcc55bfa6b7a674/packer/registry/image/image.go#L22) structure is:

Reviewer: I would suggest adding a link a link to https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/packer-plugin-sdk/packer/registry/image#Image
```suggestion
The [Image metadata](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/packer-plugin-sdk/packer/registry/image#Image) structure is:
```

---
description: |

>   The HCP Packer support allows plugins to manage image metadata that can be stored in a HCP Packer registry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  HCP Packer support allows plugins to manage image metadata that can be stored in a HCP Packer registry.
```

page_title: HCP Packer Support
---

# HCP Packer Support

~> **Note:** HCP Packer is under active development, and we suggest plugin maintainers to keep up with the SDK changes
for more on HCP Packer support.

~> **Note:** If you're looking to develop a new plugin, please refer first to the [developing
plugins](/docs/plugins/creation#developing-plugins) page.

> The HCP Packer support consists on management of image metadata that can be stored in a HCP Packer registry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
HCP Packer support consists on management of image metadata that can be stored in a HCP Packer registry.
```
